11/05/2021 11:54

Probability and Statistics

The discipline of statistics teaches us how to make intelligent judgments and informed decisions in the presence of uncertainty and variation.

Interpretations of Probability:
Despite the fact that the concept of probability is such a common and natural part of our experience, no single scientific interpretation of the term probability is accepted by all statisticians, philosophers, and other authorities.

1. The Frequency Interpretation of Probability:
In many problems, the probability that some specific outcome of a process will be obtained can be interpreted to mean the relative frequency with which that outcome would be obtained if the process were repeated a large number of times under similar conditions.
For example, the probability of obtaining a head when a coin is tossed is considered to be 1/2 because the relative frequency of heads should be approximately 1/2 when the coin is tossed a large number of times under similar conditions.
Of course, the conditions mentioned in this example are too vague to serve as the basis for a scientific definition of probability. First, a “large number” of tosses of the coin is specified, but there is no definite indication of an actual number that would be considered large enough. Second, it is stated that the coin should be tossed each time “under similar conditions,” but these conditions are not described precisely.
Another shortcoming of the frequency interpretation of probability is that it applies only to a problem in which there can be, at least in principle, a large number of similar repetitions of a certain process. Many important problems are not of this type.

2. The Classical Interpretation of Probability:
The classical interpretation of probability is based on the concept of equally likely outcomes. For example, when a coin is tossed, there are two possible outcomes: a head or a tail. If it may be assumed that these outcomes are equally likely to occur, then they must have the same probability. Since the sum of the probabilities must be 1, both the probability of a head and the probability of a tail must be 1/2. More generally, if the outcome of some process must be one of n different outcomes, and if these n outcomes are equally likely to occur, then the probability of each outcome is 1/n.
Two basic difficulties arise when an attempt is made to develop a formal definition of probability from the classical interpretation. First, the concept of equally likely outcomes is essentially based on the concept of probability that we are trying to define. The statement that two possible outcomes are equally likely to occur is the same as the statement that two outcomes have the same probability. Second, no systematic method is given for assigning probabilities to outcomes that are not assumed to be equally likely. When a coin is tossed, or a well-balanced die is rolled, or a card is chosen from a well-shuffled deck of cards, the different possible outcomes can usually be regarded as equally likely because of the nature of the process. However, when the problem is to guess whether an acquaintance will get married or whether a research project will be successful, the possible outcomes would not typically be considered to be equally likely, and a different method is needed for assigning probabilities to these outcomes.

3. The Subjective Interpretation of Probability:
According to the subjective, or personal, interpretation of probability, the probability that a person assigns to a possible outcome of some process represents her own judgment of the likelihood that the outcome will be obtained. This judgment will be based on each person’s beliefs and information about the process. Another person, who may have different beliefs or different information, may assign a different probability to the same outcome. For this reason, it is appropriate to speak of a certain person’s subjective probability of an outcome, rather than to speak of the true probability of that outcome.
This subjective interpretation of probability can be formalized. In general, if people’s judgments of the relative likelihoods of various combinations of outcomes satisfy certain conditions of consistency, then it can be shown that their subjective probabilities of the different possible events can be uniquely determined. However, there are two difficulties with the subjective interpretation. First, the requirement that a person’s judgments of the relative likelihoods of an infinite number of events be completely consistent and free from contradictions does not seem to be humanly attainable, unless a person is simply willing to adopt a collection of judgments known to be consistent. Second, the subjective interpretation provides no “objective” basis for two or more scientists working together to reach a common evaluation of the state of knowledge in some scientific area of common interest.
On the other hand, recognition of the subjective interpretation of probability has the salutary effect of emphasizing some of the subjective aspects of science. A particular scientist’s evaluation of the probability of some uncertain outcome must ultimately be that person’s own evaluation based on all the evidence available. This evaluation may well be based in part on the frequency interpretation of probability, since the scientist may take into account the relative frequency of occurrence of this outcome or similar outcomes in the past. It may also be based in part on the classical interpretation of probability, since the scientist may take into account the total number of possible outcomes that are considered equally likely to occur. Nevertheless, the final assignment of numerical probabilities is the responsibility of the scientist herself.



