07/05/2021 12:02

Sound and Music

SOUND consists of vibrations that travel through a medium such as gas, liquid or solid. Sound is a type of wave, where a WAVE is defined as motion or energy that moves along (or propagates) by itself.
In particular sound is a compression wave, which means that the direction of propagation is aligned with the direction of the motion that is being propagated.
** at sea-level, under average conditions of pressure, the speed of sound through air is 340 m/s, or 1224 km/h.

If two sounds from different sources arrive at a particular point in the medium, the displacements caused by the combined sounds will be the sum of the displacements that would have been caused by the individual sounds. This combination by simple addition is known as linear superposition. (Fig-1)
If the vibrations that form a sound are regular and repetitive, we can talk about the frequency of the sound. 

The FREQUENCY of a vibration is defined as how many cycles of upward and downward motion occur in a unit of time. Normally vibrations are measured per second. The standard unit of frequency is the Hertz which is equal to one vibration per second.

The PERIOD of a vibration is the time it takes to complete one motion from the zero point to a maximum displacement in one direction, back to the zero point, on to a maximum displacement in the opposite direction and back to the zero point again.

Period and frequency are necessarily related:
	frequency × period = unit of time (Fig-2)

The human ear can normally detect sounds with frequencies ranging from 20Hz to 20000Hz. The frequency corresponds psychologically to PITCH which represents the listener’s perception of how “high” or “low” the sound is.

A regular repetitive sound is completely characterised by its frequency, its amplitude and the shape of the vibration.

The AMPLITUDE is defined as the maximum displacement of the vibration from the zero point, and bears a relationship to the perceived LOUDNESS of the sound.
** a precise description of this relationship is that perceived loudness is a function of the energy of the wave, and that for a given frequency and shape of vibration, the energy is proportional to the square of the amplitude.

The “SHAPE” of a vibration is the shape that you see if you draw a graph of displacement as a function of time. Psychologically, it corresponds to the perceived QUALITY or TIMBRE of a sound.
However, perceived timbre is more than just a fixed shape of vibration: it generally corresponds to a shape of vibration that may change as a function of time, and as a function of frequency and amplitude.
** vibrations of some instruments, such as the piano, usually change shape and amplitude as time passes, whereas vibrations from other instruments, such as the violin and the saxophone, can be relatively constant in shape and amplitude.


